In some cases, when you're doing analysis,
you'll want to drill down into specific metrics and
dimensions and analyze trends in your data over time.
The plot rows feature and the motion chart display will help you do just that.
Let's see how these features work in the all channels report.
Let's say you want to analyze user trends for display, referral and direct.
You can plot these dimensions on the main time graph in the reporting interface.
The blue line is the aggregate data for total users.
It stays on the graph display,
causing the other rows we plotted to get lost.
The motion charts display can help us get around this issue.
There are three types of motion charts: dot based,
bar based and line based.
As a note, you have to enable flash in your browser to see the motion chart display.
The dot based display will show you the metrics for the rows we plotted as colored dots.
When you press play,
you'll see the data animated over time,
adding time as another dimension in the graph.
The line chart removes the motion capability but you can use it
to solve the row plotting issue by isolating the data you want to analyze.
Re-select the same metric users and select the dimensions,
display, referral and direct You can now see the distinction.
You're also seeing the data that wasn't selected though;
social, paid and affiliates. Let's fix that.
Select the Settings icon and move the opacity of
deselected items to zero percent to remove the deselected items.
Now, you're left with a nice clean representation of the rows.
In some instances, you may need to change
the scale to make the visual differentiation more clear.
Let's say, for example, you needed to plot rows with values that cover a large range.
We'll use Organic Search,
Paid Search and Affiliates as an example.
Even in the line chart, with motion charts,
the smaller dimensional plots are dwarfed by the larger one.
The good news is, you can change the scale from linear to logarithmic in the pop-up menu.
On a logarithmic scale,
each tick mark on the scale is the previous tick mark multiplied by some other number.
In this case, each point in the scale is multiplied by 10.
Now, you can see a different row distribution where this first section is zero to 10.
The next one goes from 10 to a 100 and then a 100 to a 1,000.
The metric values don't change,
only the visualization of the values change.
Both linear and logarithmic distributions are equally
accurate and you can choose the one that fits the needs for your visualization.
The plot rows feature and the motion chart display
can help you when you need to do impromptu analysis.